Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
"There comes a time
in every rightly-constructed
child's life
when they have
a fervent desire
to go somewhere
and dig for hidden treasure."
There it is.
Okay.
so what's the plan now?
What does the line
at the end of the book say?
"The Widow Douglas invests
in the gold which Tom
and Huck found."
So where'd they find it?
McDougal's Cave.
It's like a mile from the river.
Guys. that was great.
That will make
for a perfect intro.
Let's go again.
Guys. Guys!
"Sometimes the legend
of some riches comes
so heavily wrapped
in folklore
that you gotta scrape away
the edges to work out
what's honest to goodness
and what's hogwash."
Many o' folk
have gone searchin'
for Tom Sawyer's gold before.
but most all have lacked
the wit to match ol' Tom
and Mr. Twain.
Yeah. maybe Woody's right.
We should go away
and think up a plan.
Yeah. like really put a good
week's worth into planning it.
All right.
Please tell me that
was your stomach.
I was hoping
it was yours.
When I get to three.
run into the cave.
One. two...
- Three!
- Woody!
This gold ol'
Tom Sawyer found.
pirate gold it was.
And which Mr. Twain
scribbled down about.
Well. that treasure's
as real as the day is long.
Now. what fills me
with such earthly
confidence in the matter?
Simple. 'cause my great-grandpa
helped him hide it.
These folks
who go searching.
well. the good ones
find reward enough
in the journey itself.
but there was one
who came close.
Oh!
Now. if you can believe it.
folks used to know this one
as about the bravest.
most adventurous spirit
this side of... well. anywhere.
Agatha Armstrong.
Aggy to you and me.
came into this world with
the single. most voracious
thirst for adventure.
Oh. yeah.
There she is.
Right there.
The reptilian carnivore
mississippiensis.
better known as
the American alligator.
Okay.
Couldn't have
bothered you anymore.
Oh. God. Go away! Go away!
Hey. snappy! How about you pick
on someone your own size?
- Ow!
Get out of here. darling.
-  Ha-ha!
How do you like that.
you scallywag!
Picking on a little girl.
I don't care
if this is your swamp.
- You can talk?
- Hm!
Hi. Eurydice B. Magillicuddy.
However. you can call me
Mrs. Mac.
Thanks for saving me.
I was almost like...
A goner?
Oh. all in a day's work!
Now. where might one find
a hearty bowl
of calcium-rich liquid gold?
It's funny the companions
you pick up along life's road.
Before long. they were
the most famous feline
and biped explorers
in the entire universe.
Well. entire world.
That was until
this young'un came along
and something in Aggy changed.
She went from the most
devil-may-care
adrenaline junkie
to. well. a klutz.
You're gonna be late again!
Antony...
And an overprotective one
at that.
It weren't his fault.
Not really.
If only they didn't make
those little plastic
building blocks
so damned tasty
to a two-year-old.
Doctor told her to best keep
a closer eye on him
moving forward.
And did she ever.
Have yourself a day
wherever you are.
- Now. do you have your--
- I'm gonna be late.
Then you should have
gotten up sooner.
- Have you charged your phone
in case there's an emergency?
- Mom.
- Yes.
- It's better safe than sorry.
- Yes. Mom. I'm gonna be late.
- Okay. Drink.
- What? What is this?
- Just drink it.
- I gotta go.
- It's good for you.
Gross.
She still thinks
I'm three years old.
I'm being suffocated.
Yeah. suffocated
by your mom.
Yeah. that'd suck.
Dude. really?
I'm baring my soul here.
I mean. my mom never crossed
the entire Arabian desert
on nothing but
a gallon of water.
Just to get lost
at sea for 75 days
on an inflatable raft.
fending off pirates at
every turn. I'm just saying.
Yeah. well. don't.
Hey. Ant. come on.
It's gonna be
a boring party anyway.
Mm. I love you.
Miss Armstrong.
Damn. what the--
Good morning.
sleeping beauty.
Lay off me. Lennon.
And here we have the rare beast.
the galactus stare-a-sarus.
-  I'm sorry.
I wasn't. um...
- I'm just messing with you.
Okay. you lot. Settle down.
Sorry. I'm late.
Traffic was a disaster.
All right. Right. right. right.
Good morning. class.
Good morning.
Miss Armstrong.
Antony's mom.
Lennon. as we've previously
discussed. in this room.
I am Miss Armstrong.
Perhaps you would like the hour
in detention to reflect on that.
-  Ooh!
Oh. do you need a sweater?
Are you cold?
- No?
- No. Stop it.
Right. onto the fun stuff.
This semester's book report.
No. No. no. I think
you'll really get a kick
out of this one.
Now. this particular book
is written by a man who goes
by the name of Samuel Clemens.
Nah. Mark Twain wrote that.
That's a pseudonym.
his pen name.
He named his pen?
Like a stage name?
Yeah. like Lennon's mom
has at the zoo.
Bobo. the-- Ow!
Do you want more detention?
Yes. Lu. that's exactly right.
And the reason
he chose that name
is because it was the call
to the riverboat captains
to let them know that
the water was deep enough
for them to travel through.
"Land ho! Mark Twain. captain!"
Uh. Miss Armstrong.
are you sure we should be
learning about this book?
It has antiquated values.
There's validity to that point.
But the book can't be
dismissed outright.
Now. this offers us
incredible insight
into America's troubled past.
This is really a parable
on developing moral code
through loyalty and friendship.
all while showing kids
how to have some damn fun.
I want all of you
to go treasure hunting.
Okay.
Through the pages
of this wonderful book.
and you tell me how you think
Tom Sawyer and his friends
would survive
in our modern world. Okay?
Pass that up.
I've paired you off
into groups of three.
Hey. we're book report mates.
Wow! Uh. I mean.
uh. good. Great.
Mr. Twain liked to say.
"Never let your schooling
interfere with your education."
For. after all. the man
who does not read books
has no advantage over the man
who cannot read them.
If you have any questions.
just come up and see me.
Hey. you wanna
hang out after class?
- Yeah.
- Cool.
We can go over who will do
what with the assignment.
Oh. right.
Yeah. of course.
Cool. Sweet. See you.
Hey. Ant. I'll be out
in a minute. okay?
Okay.
Hey. Miss Armstrong.
Oh. Woody.
do you have a question
about the assignment?
No. Um. I. uh...
I made you something.
You...
made me something. again.
Um. that's very sweet.
Oh. I-I was inspired
by that story you told us
about the time you were lost
in the jungles of Malaysia.
- Right. Yeah.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
Uh. that's very lovely.
What is it?
It-it lets you hear
what animals are thinking.
I-I figured since Mrs. Mac
never leaves your side.
it'd be cool to hear
what she's thinking.
See. you just press
this button right here.
and then...
Voila!
Maybe she just doesn't have
a whole lot going on upstairs.
But I will try again tonight
when I get home.
So. thank you.
Bye. Miss Armstrong.
Get this ridiculous
thing off my head right now.
And don't think I won't forget.
"Maybe she doesn't have
much going on upstairs."
Some days I really think
I should have just let
that gator take you.
Hush. you.
Okay.
Onto the matter at hand.
Ah. yes. The interview.
Are you ready?
No. No. I. um.
I'm freaking out about it.
Come on.
we did this last night.
- What are you?
- I'm a tiger.
- I can't hear you.
And what does a tiger do?
They devour their prey.
And what are you
going to do?
I'm going to devour my prey.
So let's get to it.
Okay.
I am a tiger.
I'm a tiger.
I'm perfect for this job.
I'm the only person
for this job.
I'm gonna get this job.
- Aggy.
- Hi.
- Thanks for coming.
- Of course. Jenny.
It's not every day
that you get to interview
for your dream job.
Oh.
Oh. I-- I've come across
too eager. haven't I?
Oh. no. no. no. no. Um...
Aggy. this is--
this is just awkward. Uh...
The head of the natural
history position has.
um. it's been filled.
Oh.
Oh. Um...
Was it-- was it something I did?
No. no. no. no. I mean.
you're one of our
favorite teachers.
It was sudden.
you know?
And I mean. honestly.
I didn't even have much say.
I've been practically
training my entire life
for this type of position.
Oh. I know. I mean.
we all love hearing
all the stories of your
youthful endeavors.
It's just that. um...
Well. someone applied that
has a more. just slightly
more recent résumé.
- Really?
- Yeah.
Who?
- Agatha.
- AJ.
Oh. wait.
Oh. you two. you--
you know each other.
- We do.
- We do. Yes.
- Agatha used to be my...
- Acquaintance.
What are you doing in town?
Well. the school was in need
of a world-renowned explorer
to head the natural
history department.
and. uh. I was in between gigs
and thought. "What the hell?"
Do you mind
if Jenny and I talk?
Ooh. no. no. no.
Go right ahead.
Oh. we're gonna sit. Okay.
Oh! Yeah. of course.
Bye.
I am 100 times
the scholar he is.
You do realize that.
I know.
Listen. the school board
notified us that due
to rezoning.
we now have too many
schools in our district.
And with cuts to funding.
they now have to close one.
And we're at the top
of the list?
- I mean--
- Yes. yes. we are.
I mean. it's been
a rough few years.
First COVID.
and now this.
And so we need something
that will set us apart
and elevate us in the eyes
of the school board.
But my résumé would
run circles around his.
But you haven't updated it
in over a decade.
Aggy. we need someone
who is more of a risk-taker
and can reinvigorate
the kids' interest.
and we feel like having
AJ leading the history
department will do that.
Really? Him?
Look. I'm sorry.
Oh! I'm just--
Oh. Mr. Harrison.
Oh. you have my full support
if you should even need it.
And. you know. if you
find yourself abandoned
on the side of the road.
just go ahead.
Give me a call.
Not!
- You...
- Aggy.
We'll always have Morocco.
Everyone thinks
I'm a mommy's boy. even Lu.
I don't think
you're a mommy's boy.
- Gee. thanks.
-  I gotta go.
All right.
I'll see you. man.
Catch you on
the flip side.
Looky here.
It's Mommy Armstrong's
favorite student.
And there's me.
the least favorite.
You know. you should think
about paying the school rent.
- given how much
you're in detention.
Talking to me like that
takes some guts.
How about you say
we take a closer look at 'em?
Not today.
You're dead meat. Armstrong!
I'll be comin' for you.
Okay.
No. he's fine. He's fine.
He's gonna be home.
He's gonna be fine.
Oh. my God. Ant.
You're safe.
You worried me.
Where were you?
Why didn't you call me?
I'm 30 minutes late.
Just chill.
No. I won't chill.
You worried me.
Fine. I'm late because
the bozo you gave detention to
took it out on me.
Okay. You don't
have to shout.
I do need to shout. Mom.
because you don't listen.
Why can't you just
let me be a normal kid?
I can't do this anymore.
I can't live with her watching
over me all the damn time.
Well. if you ask me.
no good can ever come
from running away from home.
Just see for yourself
how that worked out
for ol' Tom and my Grandpa Joe.
But it sure does make
for one hell of a story.
Stupid books everywhere.
"To whomever should find this...
My father's story lives forever
in the pages of Tom Sawyer."
Come on. boys.
we're owning them.
Yeah!
He ain't far.
Come on.
- Let's go!
- Yeah!
♪ Dip to the moonlight
Dip. dip ♪
♪ Dip ♪
♪ Three for you ♪
♪ And five for me ♪
♪ If flame or flood ♪
♪ Bring harm on me ♪
♪ I'll give you my five
And take from you ♪
♪ My three... ♪
Hand it over. Sawyer.
What's in it for me if I do?
- I'll let you live.
-  Yeah.
You can work a double shift.
digging me gold.
That ain't no deal.
I want in on.
No!
What do you want?
Enough to set up my family.
Let us live peaceably.
The rest is yours.
-  Ow.
You idiot!
Tom Sawyer.
Tell your Aunt Polly.
Angus sent you.
What's so funny?
That ain't the real map.
Being rich isn't what all
its cracked up to me.
But then.
you'll never find out.
No! You idiots!
Damn it!
Okay.
So. what's this thing that's
so important. it couldn't
have waited until tomorrow?
- It was real.
- What?
"Mr. Twain recorded it
most exactly as it occurred.
The only thing
he omitted was..."
Where's the rest of it?
No. It's just signed.
Mary Sawyer.
Hannibal. 1923.
"Most of the adventures
recorded in this book
really occurred.
One or two were
experiences of my own.
The rest. those
of classmates of mine."
Now. check this.
"The real Tom Sawyer
and Twain were friends
in San Francisco.
Twain told Sawyer.
'I'm going to write
a book about a boy.
Just such a boy
as you must have been.'"
The-the character's
based on a real person.
Plenty are. So what?
So. if it's based
on a real person.
then maybe the events are
based on real events. too.
They discovered
pirates' gold.
Okay. $12.000 of it.
- Is that all?
- That was in 1876.
With inflation. that's like
two million dollars.
give or take.
Whoa.
But-- but do you guys think
that this is actually
some real-life journal
of what actually happened?
Listen. this could be.
like. our one time
to do something great.
Like historically huge.
and finally have
people respect us.
What if people find out?
They'll fall over
themselves laughing at us.
They already laugh
at us. Wood.
For two million bucks.
they can do whatever
they like.
Think of all the shiny.
new inventing equipment
you could snap up with that.
I bet my mom would
be mad impressed
with us as well.
Hmm.
But where would
we even start?
- Uh. the letter said
"Hannibal". right?
- Yeah.
That's the town Twain based
St. Petersburg on.
And it's just
one county over.
- Come on. man.
Come on. Woody.
- Come on. Woodster.
Come on. I know.
I can see it in your face.
- Let's do it.
- Woodster!
Let's find
Tom Sawyer's gold.
- All right!
- Yay!
And that's what led
to these young'uns being
in this here predicament.
- Oh! Flashlight.
All right. Everybody.
keep your eyes peeled
in case those wolves
follow us in here.
What are we
even looking for?
Right. The book said
the treasure is two miles
into the cave.
Oh. look.
There it is.
What?
Guys. we're gonna
be billionaires.
This is so much more
than I imagined.
Oh. Ant. what are you
gonna do with your share?
I'm gonna get my own TV
and my own house.
And probably a TV
in each room. Maybe three.
Why not four
and five houses?
Can you guys believe
it was that easy?
- Luxury suits you. Lu.
- Whoa.
Thank you.
One does try.
The hell are you kids
doing in here?
Uh. it-it's ours.
Finders keepers.
Okay. you can have this.
-  Huh?
Ugh. It's an
amusement park?
State park.
And you're trespassing.
I told you guys
it wasn't real.
Now. as I said.
Tom and Mr. Twain would
never have made it easy as pie
for just anyone to find.
Mr. Twain himself was just
about as wise as four folks
all smashed together himself.
So it was gonna take
about that many. at least.
if anyone was ever
gonna unravel
the mystery of Tom's gold.
Generation after generation
has tried but failed.
searching for
our family fortune.
Tch. Always coming up short.
Until I. AJ Harrison.
discovered
that my protégé.
a woman who I taught
everything that I know.
possesses the letter
that's gonna give me
everything that I want.
Well...
There ain't gonna be
no stopping me this time.
Lennon!
What now. Uncle AJ?
How would you like
to become...
...really rich?
Gotta give you points
for adventurous spirit.
Got a nephew about your age.
can't get him off the computer.
let alone travel in the dead
of the night to hunt treasure.
What's gonna happen to us?
Well. last lot of kids
who went looking for my
great-great-grandpa's gold.
ended up doing 20 to life
in Leavenworth.
Well. I think we can
overlook the criminal
charge this one time. Hm?
So. wait. you said. "your
great-great-grandpa's gold"?
Indeed. Tom Sawyer.
That handsome fellow
on the left right there.
What?
He was my granddad's grandpa.
Look. I don't
blame you. kids.
Plenty of folks
from far and wide
have gone searching for it.
I took a shot
at it myself once.
So you think
it's real. right?
Hmm. Well. it's a wonderful
tale to excite kids.
but it's just that.
A tale.
Alrighty. Who's drawing
the short straw and have me
call their parents first?
Yes?
- Can you spare a moment?
- Sure.
Sit tight.
You're gonna be all right.
I told you. guys. we were
gonna get in trouble. and--
So you were real.
Tom Sawyer.
That's insane.
The three amigos.
"MDCCCLXV.
I mean. I know it's not
the Wi-Fi password.
but. like. what is that?
That's the year. 1865.
They wasted a lot of space
writing it like that. right?
You guys. we've been going
about this all wrong.
Twain wouldn't make it so easy
that the treasure is exactly
where it's supposed to be.
"Under the cross." We've been
thinking about the cross
like a crucifix.
So what do you
think it is?
"Under the cross."
You guys. Chapter X.
It's the one in the tannery.
You guys. this is
our first hot lead.
We can't just sit here
and do nothing.
What do you suggest we do?
Just stroll on out of here?
Uh... Hm.
No. We go out the back door.
Come on. hurry. Go!
- The-- But--
- Shh!
Go! Woody. let's go!
Hah. And now we're fugitives.
Be careful. you idiot.
There's nothing but
a bunch of junk up here.
Look harder.
It's gonna be leather-bound.
It's gonna be yellowed.
aged. stitched with a binder.
It's gonna have lots of pages.
I know what a book
looks like. Uncle AJ.
Lennon?
Hello?
Miss Armstrong?
This is Detective Thatcher.
Firstly. don't worry.
they're fine.
But you'll have
to come to Hannibal
to collect your son.
My son?
No. no. my son's in bed.
No. actually.
they went exploring.
Something about an
assignment you gave them?
What?
Hannibal?
How did they even
get that far? Okay.
Okay. I'm coming.
I'm coming.
Oh. crap.
I think these suckers
beat us to the punch.
Okay. get out of there.
Abort mission.
Get out of there.
Okay.
we'll see you soon.
Yes. I will keep an eye on them.
Great.
-  It's clear.
- Um...
Oh. the only one I found
is the old Mitchell Tannery.
It says it closed
in 1984. though.
- It's seven blocks away.
- That's where we start.
- Okay.
- Let's go.
What about
a personal security guard
to monitor him 24 hours a day?
You should have taken
that turn back there.
Cat. I remember every single
road. alley. underpass. and
freeway I have ever been on.
I know the way.
When I get
my hands on him...
Well. for someone
with a photographic memory.
it seems to have slipped
your mind what you were like
at his age.
My arms are getting tired.
Here.
"He picked up
a clean pine shingle
that laid in the moonlight.
They buried the shingle
close to the wall."
Here.
It can't be
in here.
It's got to be like an
outside wall then. right?
I saw some shovels coming in.
Grab them quietly.
Now. let's go.
Let's get digging.
- Ant!
- Sorry.
Detective Thatcher?
I'm looking
for Detective Thatcher.
- Hi.
Hi.
Uh. Agatha. Aggy.
Antony's mom.
Yes.
So. uh. did you have
a good drive?
It was fine.
Well. come with me.
- I have a little update
on the kids.
- Oh. okay.
What?
I can't find anything.
This is a waste of time.
All night for...
- ...nothing.
- Wait.
They said they found
the treasure under the X.
Under the X
is Chapter Nine.
Okay. so where are they
in that chapter?
It's the one
in the graveyard.
Come on.
Guess we're going
to a graveyard.
I hate graveyards.
♪ Dip. dip. dip ♪
♪ Three for you ♪
♪ And five for me ♪
Is now really
the time for karaoke?
Sorry. Habit.
I always do it
when I'm worried.
Thatcher. we've got
a break in at the tannery.
Three minors spotted. Over.
Thatcher's responding.
Let's just
do this quick. okay?
Tom said. "Huck. do you
reckon Hoss Williams
hears us talking?"
That's who we're looking for.
Okay. then let's split up.
Call out if you
find something.
- All right.
- Okay.
Come on out. guys.
You're not in trouble.
Antony!
Freshly dug right here.
This is his.
Why is it here?
They said something about
an assignment you gave 'em.
On Tom Sawyer.
Wait.
Tom and Huck buried a pine
shingle at an old tannery
after they witnessed a murder.
Is there a graveyard nearby?
Hannibal Graveyard.
Oldest around.
Then that's where
they are. Let's go.
Hey. come look.
I mean. it's close.
Do you think they're related?
There must be some clues
around here somewhere.
Wait. the--
That's weird.
- What-- Whoa! Whoa! Woody!
No! Whoa.
- Huh? What the--
- Ah!
I think I'm ready
to go home now.
Sorry. Mary.
I told you. guys.
this was a dumb idea.
You guys said.
"Oh. we'll find treasure."
All we've done
is get arrested
and find a skull.
How am I gonna explain
this to my mom?
At least we tried.
I just wanna go home.
I--
Dude. wait. really?
Sorry.
You too? Come on.
guys. seriously?
Hey. wait.
It-it's a--
It's a puzzle.
Guys. we have
to give this up.
We're in enough
trouble as it is.
It's not
Hoss Williams.
It's "Who is...
someone".
Wait. letter mix.
- Yeah.
- Take the S.
and put it in front
of the A and the M. It's "Sam".
And the other S makes "Sill".
"Sam Sill"?
It is real.
So that's it.
"Who is Sam Sill?"
All right. let's go
find Sam Sill then.
- Okay. let's go.
Well. what do you know?
They've gone and done what
no one's ever done before.
Solve the first riddle
of ol' Tom's mystery.
Guys. found him. Over here.
- Sam Sill.
- Nice. dude.
- Whoa! What--
No way.
- Is that the--
- The map.
Do you guys know
what this means?
It means you all
are in huge trouble.
- Hi. Miss Armstrong.
- Hey. Mom.
It would take the remainder
of your teenage years
to blueprint
just how much trouble
you lot are in.
- But. Mom. we have to--
- Antony Auggie Armstrong.
You are so grounded
that your clothes
will be back in fashion
by the time your punishment
is even over.
- Let's go. Now.
- Detective. can you
explain it to her?
- Can you help us out?
- Sorry. guys. I'd love to help.
But as you ran out on me.
it's time to face the music.
- But. Mom. we--
- Now. Antony.
Miss Armstrong.
we're so close.
- Don't you get that it's real?
- Seriously. we were so close.
I knew it.
Hey. Hey. Buttons.
Yeah. I'm thinking of getting
the band back together.
You think you can pull another
Alabama coat hanger for me?
I cannot
believe you would be
so irresponsible. Antony.
But we have proof that the gold
and Tom Sawyer is real.
- Look. we found this map.
No. that is just
a worthless old scroll.
You never believe me.
Do you have any idea
how many wild goose chases
I've been sent on
because of a stupid map? No.
No. none of you have any clue
how dangerous it can really be.
How would I
ever get to know?
I mean. you took a job
at my school to watch over me
every second of the day.
I did not.
I like teaching.
You hate teaching.
You love adventure.
I mean. at least you used to
before you had me.
before you scared Dad away.
Now I have an overprotective
mother and an absent father.
and neither of us
have fun ever.
It's because
I love you. okay?
Then I'd hate to see
how you'd be if you hated me.
You dropped this.
by the way.
Why did you
even take that?
Because I was...
going to find the gold and then
run away to Utah to find Dad.
Ant. your father...
He's a door
best left unopened.
Well. he can't be
any worse than you.
He hates me.
Ant just hates me.
He just-- He hates me.
Your mom's really
talking to herself.
He's just hot under the collar.
But I can't say I blame him.
You know. you'll always
catch more flies with honey
than vinegar.
- Hm.
Damn it.
Ugh. I left the house
in such a hurry.
I forgot my purse.
I need to borrow
your debit card.
I will pay you back
when we get home.
Thank you.
He's proud of me.
They say once you have
that lust for adventure.
it never-- well.
never truly dies.
It lives on inside
of you. dormant.
waiting for that moment
to snatch you back into it.
It's a feeling almost
as pervasive as a mother
not wanting to let her son down.
Almost.
Oh. if-- if we do this...
You took me hostage.
and we are back home
in 24 hours.
- Okay?
- Okay. All right. Mom.
-  Let's go!
It's time I took
the road less traveled again.
All right. buckle up.
It's gonna be a wild ride.
Okay. seriously though.
buckle up. Safety first.
Everyone. act natural.
pretend like I'm not even here.
Ugh. Just put that
away already.
Stupid moths
have eaten half of it.
And half the words are missing.
Nothing here makes sense.
"Dip. dip. dip. if.
nor. bring the..."
The words are so small.
I can't make it out.
I may have just the thing.
Aw. hey. kitty-cat.
Do you wanna learn
how to talky-talk like a person?
- Oh. yes. you do.
- Oh...
- I'm gonna give it
one more try.
- Woody--
- Let's see.
- I wouldn't do that
if I were you.
What the--
I-I didn't put that on yet.
Oh. Mom.
I guess the cat's
out of the bag now.
It would be
a cataclysmic catastrophe
to categorically succumb
to the catalytically
catatonic states
of which you currently cater.
- Huh?
- I gotta get this.
Oh. man. this scene could
use a little more light.
That's okay.
We'll roll with it.
I just want. like. a relaxed
performance from everyone.
Okay? And action.
No. you're not filming me.
I'm going back to my trailer.
Why not?
Hey. all this time and you never
told me Mrs. Mac could talk?
I-I'm...
I guess there's one
or two things I haven't
quite told you about yet.
And I'm assuming that's been
here my entire life. too.
Where's the spare tire?
I don't know. man.
- Okay. Get the map out.
- Okay.
"In Allister's Cove.
the second shall be...
Solve the puzzles there laid.
and look within to see."
It's only accessible
through the bayou.
It's about five miles
down the road.
Pack up the map.
Woody. grab what you can
from the kit. And. Lu?
Keep filming.
You got it.
Okay. let's go.
- Uh...
- Hi.
It's fine.
- Ah. car trouble?
Oh. no.
No. we're fine. We--
It's just a pit stop.
but we're moving
along now. so...
Yeah. whoa. whoa.
whoa there. Missy. uh...
You can't stop on
the side of the road.
Not in this town.
Oh. okay. I'm--
I'm sorry. I didn't--
I didn't know what the rules
in this district were.
but it won't happen again.
Oh. you wouldn't be
on a treasure hunt now.
would you?
No. No. we're going home.
- Kids?
- The map.
- Uh-huh. Map?
-  Uh...
- What map?
- Oh. hmm.
Wise girl. huh?
Hand it over now.
- Mom.
- Give it to him.
give it to him.
No. don't.
Pick it up.
I ain't playing. kid.
- Run!
- Go!
- Go. go!
Ugh!
That's not mud!
Run!
-  Go! Go.
- Whoa.
Where do we go?
- Is he following us?
- Keep going.
This way. This way.
Don't look back.
- Just keep going.
Brats.
Excellent work. my old pal.
You just earned
your 20 percent.
- Hey. what about me?
- Shut up. Lennon.
A chance to get that turd back
will sweeten the deal.
Oh. you're gonna get it.
And then some.
It's in Allister's Cove.
Allister's Cove. All right.
That means
we're gonna go up
and around the bayou.
Then let's move.
Let's move.
Hey. can you carry
some. Uncle AJ?
Lennon. I'm carrying the map.
- Do you wanna be rich?
- Yeah.
You consider yourself
an athlete?
Then let's move.
- Okay.
I think we're clear.
- Oh. no.
- Are you okay?
Are you okay. bud?
Sorry. guys. we--
we lost the map.
That's okay. because we have
a budding filmmaker
who got it all on tape.
I was actually just getting
you guys' close-up shots.
I was gonna get
a pickup shot
of the map later.
Well. that's that.
We're done.
No. no. no. no. no.
I'm not gonna let that happen.
Look. when I was your age.
I was running all over the place
chasing after
all sorts of things.
But you guys have gotten closer
than anyone ever has with this.
We're gonna see this through.
We're gonna keep
doing this. okay?
But how?
Hand me a pen and paper
from the kit.
An elephant never forgets.
So either I'm part elephant
or it's very fortuitous
that you have a chaperone
who has photographic memory.
- No way.
- Whoa. Whoa.
And why didn't you
tell me any of this?
Must have slipped
my mind.
That's funny. Mom. Not.
So you remember everything?
Everything.
Whoa.
Okay. So it looks like we
have to go through the river.
It's a couple of miles
down that way.
so we got to keep going.
- All right?
- Let's go.
Let's do this.
I think we're going
the right way.
At least we're finally
in the clear. right?
Why did you have
to say that out loud?
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Get back.
- Get back.
- Get back. Get back.
Get behind me.
Shoo! Shoo!
Why are they throwing
rocks at me?
- So rude.
It switched on.
First. you come
to steal my babies.
Then you go
throw rocks at me.
Um. Miss Alligator.
we're not trying
to steal your babies.
Good. You'd be
in a lot more trouble.
What brings you out this far?
Um. we were looking
for Allister's Cove.
but we got lost.
Allister's Cove
is just down the river.
Tell you what. as an apology
for trying to eat you
25 years ago.
why don't you take
that rowboat over there?
Look. I'm sorry
about your eye.
I wish I would have known
all those years ago
that you were...
just trying to protect
your family.
Aw. don't mention it.
Well. so long now.
Y'all have a pleasant trip.
My invention works.
I knew it. I knew it.
-  Oh. yes.
- Good job. Woody.
Yeah. man.
- All right. we gotta keep
a move on.
- That's great.
Let's go. This way.
Let's go.
Okay.
Now I feel like
I'm in a Mark Twain novel.
- Nah. we're in a movie.
- Wow.
Okay. the location
of the next map
is right over that ridge.
Okay. let's go.
Hurry.
This way.
That's my idea.
I think it could work.
but I'll think it out.
"What's done on a dare
yet comes in two pairs?
How I'll spend mine. I know.
but what will you get
with your share?"
Share.
I got it. Okay.
Huck asked Tom
what would he do
with his share of the loot.
Chapter 25.
Yeah. it's right here. Okay.
"Tom said he'll buy
these four things.
A drum."
Uh... Okay. the drum.
"A sure-'nough sword."
- Oh. over there.
- Oh. there it is.
"A red necktie."
Uh. necktie. Got it.
"And a bull!"
- Whoa!
- Whoa! Whoa! Wait!
Wait. bull pup!
- Bull pup!
Everyone okay?
You okay?
- Yeah.
- I'm so sorry.
Dude. will this
riddle ever end?
Oh.
Woody. this looks like
a task for you.
Here.
You know what we're
gonna do at first light?
Mm-hmm.
- We're gonna track down
those wannabes.
- Mm-hmm.
those imposter
treasure hunters.
and then...
it's all gonna be
about fame and glory.
Oh. and don't
forget the gold.
I almost-- I almost
forgot about the gold.
Let's not forget the gold.
Hey. Lennon.
Are you having trouble
pitching that tent?
"Let's go treasure
hunting." you said.
"It'll be fun." you said.
What is this?
Are you not having fun?
I just thought we could spend
some uncle-nephew time.
Maybe he don't want
his share?
Oh. yeah.
I gotta get this.
Yeah. it's a steamboat.
How's a steamboat gonna
help us find the next map?
Um. maybe it'll float
to where it is.
Well. the map said.
"Look within and you'll see."
Whoa. I think
these are coordinates.
Oh.
- Okay.
- Um. longitude.
27.7676 degrees north.
- Got it.
- Latitude. uh.
82.6403 degrees west.
West...
Oh.
Oh. that's--
that's just right over here.
- Oh!
- Okay. come on. Let's go.
- Come on.
- Check it out.
This is the spot.
Yeah. it's supposed
to be right here. but...
Does it say anything
else in there?
Um...
Wait.
Oh!
Found it.
Uh. "Twain 0.12"?
That cheeky bugger.
- A twain...
- Is a measurement of depth.
You were paying attention.
And 0.12 percent of a twain
is about a foot and a half.
Get the shovel
out of my backpack.
Hold this.
Almost there.
Come on. Woody.
Wait.
Whoa!
Oh. The moths must have eaten
it away like the other map.
No. it needs to be aligned
with the first map.
Look.
Oh. that-that's why the rhyme
was so weird in the other one.
Well. do you remember
the other words?
I do. but without it
being perfectly lined up.
it-it wouldn't make any sense.
We need that
first map back.
I might have
a stroke of luck for you.
It appears you have
some scallywags following you.
They set up camp
right outside my hidey-hole.
Okay.
Operation Treasure Map
Rescue commence.
Um...
I'll come up with something
snappier on the way.
-  That's true.
- That was terrible.
Please.
So she was about
five-foot-ten.
She said her name
was Margaret.
There's the map. right next
to the water cooler.
Told you guys. bringing this
would come in handy.
Those filmmaking skills
may have just saved the day.
Okay. so here's
what we're gonna do.
Actually...
Ant. what do you think
we should do?
Okay. Um...
Lu. you're gonna sneak in
to get the map.
Copy that.
Woody. you hide behind
the tree and be ready
to protect her. okay?
Sir. yes. sir.
Mom. you circle
around that exit.
- Roger that.
- And I'm gonna distract them.
- Everyone got it?
- Got it.
Right. then.
Well. we're surrounded.
and. uh.
the whole tribe--
- Huh?
- What was that?
Lennon. go
check it out.
You're dead. mama's boy!
Nothing but net. Lennon.
I'm gonna get you!
The map is gone.
The girl's got the map.
Come here. you--
I'm gonna get you!
-  Ha-ha!
Now you know why
they call me Wood-y.
AJ?
Ugh. head of natural history.
I should have known
that you were behind this.
Well. I am
a treasure hunter. Agatha.
and you should know
not to get between
a treasure hunter...
- and his gold.
What are you gonna do.
AJ. hurt me?
Yeah. I am.
You wouldn't dare.
What makes you so sure?
Well. let's face it.
You've always been
in love with me.
Me. in love with you!?
Wow. that is a big alligator!
That is an alligator.
And. uh. we're gonna put
a pin in this for now. Buttons!
- Buttons!
Thanks. Marielle.
So how
do you know him?
I was his. uh.
research assistant
in college.
Yeah. we explored
the world together.
and on our last exploration.
he scammed me.
So. um. we haven't
seen each other since.
- Did you see him?
- Yeah.
Okay. let's take out
the maps.
Oh.
- Line them up.
- Here.
Um. "Dip to the moonlight.
dip. dip. dip.
Three for you
and five for me."
A riddle?
No. it's a song.
And I know just
where I've heard it.
- Detective!
- Detective Thatcher!
- Is the detective in?
- No. no. no. he's very busy.
- He can't talk right now.
- But we need to speak to him!
What's the commotion about?
You after Huck Finn's
gold now. too?
We made the decision
to keep looking.
Yeah.
and we found these.
When you line them up
correctly. they spell out
this rhyme.
- That's the family song.
- Mm-hmm.
I remember you
humming it in the car.
- You do?
- Mm-hmm.
You'd make quite
the detective.
Miss Armstrong.
Oh. you made
quite the impression.
Uh. you're singing.
Uh. you're singing made
quite the impression.
- and that's why...
- Mom.
- The maps. Come on.
- Right.
It-it was an old
family song.
My grandmother
sang it to my father.
who sang it to me.
Our family
were coal miners.
and our great-great-grandpa
came up with it
to get his spirits up
when he was trapped down
in a mine for four days
- in the 1800s.
-  Mm.
So it's hinting at being hidden
somewhere deep underground.
The nearest place
is McDougal's Caves
where we found you guys.
Ugh. But we already
looked there!
Yeah. to no avail.
Not with a Sawyer.
you didn't.
You're coming?
- Yes!
- Let's go!
- Let's find that gold!
Whoo!
Oh.
Legend has it
that more have entered
than have returned.
So. stay close. guys.
Does that mean someone
has died in here?
-  No. Oh!
Are you sure we should
be doing this?
Just-- just stay together.
It's okay. man.
"Dip to the moonlight."
Guys. uh. find a place
in the roof where light
can beam through.
Right there.
Great.
Now. if we can "dip. dip. dip"
- underneath these rocks...
-  Mm-hmm.
...we should be close.
right here.
And then it says.
"Three for you
and five for me."
Paces. right?
But where do we start?
Um. we can...
Oh. Maybe out that cross.
Yeah. That's gotta
be it. right?
Okay. so. paces. right?
- Mm-hmm.
Three and five.
One. two. three.
four. five.
Look above you.
Anything?
I don't know.
- You got something?
- Yeah. yeah. I think so.
-  Whoa!
-  Good.
We found the map.
- This is so cool.
- Yeah.
"If flood or fire
should harm me..."
"I take from you five
and give you my three."
"Take from you..."
- No.
Take it all from you.
I would like
to thank the inventor
of this. uh.
ridiculous contraption.
The GPS within helped us
track you all the way here.
Lennon.
All right. phones out.
Give them up.
-  No.
- Just do it.
- Out. out. Now.
- It's not worth it.
Give me.
Ooh. XR-17. Nice.
Thank you.
And. of course...
- You.
- No.
Oh. This is gonna take me
all the way to the gold.
You won't get far.
Just watch me.
Agatha. you've spent your
whole life chasing history.
Allow me
to add you to it.
Bye-bye now.
- Back. Go. Go. Now!
- Go to the back!
Run!
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Whoa!
I think we owe 'em
a moment of respect.
Agatha. you were
a worthy foe.
but. uh. you know. we all meet
our makers someday. right?
And. uh. furthermore.
that's good.
Let's go get rich.
Oh. no.
This is all my fault.
What? No. Woody. you are
not to blame for his greed.
No.
"And what does
it amount to?" said Satan
with his evil chuckle.
Nothing at all.
You always come out
where you went in.
Oh. for them to get this far
to only have it snatched
at their final hurdle.
life sure is a kick
in the guts sometimes.
Someone will be here eventually.
No. they won't.
This is hopeless.
And to think this is how
it's all gonna end.
And-- and I never even got
the chance to change the world
with one of my inventions.
I never got to win
an Oscar.
I never made the news
catching criminals.
Not even once.
And I never...
Oh. no. I've--
I've really gotten to do
pretty much everything
there is to do.
so. never mind.
What about you. Ant?
Uh. I...
It's dumb.
- Mm. come on.
- It doesn't matter.
Well... Listen.
we just have to look
on the bright side. okay?
They're not gonna get
very far without that
torn piece from the letter.
Wait. How do you know
that the letter was torn?
You told me that it was.
Uh. no.
I didn't tell you.
Okay.
Well. maybe
this isn't my first time
looking for Tom Sawyer's
treasure.
Oh. wait.
Do you know what this means?
No.
- Oh!
What in the name
of all that's holy?
Hmm. You don't see that
every-- Oh!
Come back here.
you wee scully.
That was a good burger.
my friend.
Whoa!
- What?
- That's ten types
of illegal right there.
We've been going
in circles for hours.
Do you not know
how to read this map?
Mm. no.
Each map seems to point
in a different direction.
One goes here. one goes there.
one goes nowhere.
Wait a minute.
There is a reason
why the world's
most renowned explorer.
an anthropological--
You're an anthropologist.
Uncle AJ.
Whatever.
The secret hiding place
to Tom Sawyer's gold is...
- The Temperance Tavern.
T-this way!
Oh. what in the dickens?
Oh. no.
The battery died.
- Um...
- Oh.
That's Detective
Thatcher's car.
Meow. Meow. Meow--
Okay. fine. I'm a talking cat.
Yawnfest.
Now. will you please go
into those caves.
follow their scent.
and rescue my friends.
who heavens to Betsy
I fear may well be
trapped down there?
Let's go.
And don't you dillydally.
Thanks. guys.
Call more reinforcements
to secure the perimeter
- at the final site.
- Got it.
- We'll meet you guys there.
- Okay.
Do we need to draw
the map again?
No. I know exactly
where it is.
Hey. um. you did
a really good job in there.
Oh. thank you.
As a student of history.
I have to ask myself what
stories would these walls
tell if they could speak.
If you bothered to read
the book. you'd already
know the answer.
Agatha.
how did you--
No matter.
So. bringing your encyclopedic
knowledge of literature
to a gunfight. I see.
It has perfect aim.
Well. I will tell you this.
I'm gonna fill you all
full of new holes
to breathe from
if you don't tell us
where that treasure is.
The gold was never hidden
in just one place.
See. it was...
always that last line
in the riddle
that really stumped me.
"Take from you five
and give you my three."
Ant. what does Twain's opening
passage in his book say?
"Tom Sawyer is a combination
of the characteristics
of three boys whom I knew.
and therefore belongs
to the composite order
of architecture."
So. what are you saying?
Tom Sawyer wasn't real?
Oh. no. he was real.
But three made up this story.
Miss Armstrong. yes.
I've been expecting you.
That gold belonged
to just three men.
Thomas Sawyer. Ben Rogers...
And Joe Harper.
My great-grandpappy.
That ol' Tom Sawyer
made a promise
to not let that gold
fall into Angus' hands.
Just as
I promised to never
let it fall into yours.
You were obsessive
from the day we met
about your family's fortune.
So after you
double-crossed me.
I made it my goal to seek out
every last detail
to ensure you never found it.
So I destroyed its final secret
to always keep you at bay.
and I've been carrying
the remainder of that letter
and the location of the gold
in my head all of these years.
Wait a minute.
if you had all
this information.
why didn't you come
for the treasure yourself?
I tried.
But not every stone
needs to be turned.
not every treasure pocketed.
Well. Aggy...
That's where we differ.
See. the only thing
that matters to me...
Ant!
You're gonna tell me
where the gold is.
The safety is on. you moron.
Moron?
-  Ah!
I'll tell you this.
I was the captain
of my fencing team
at college!
Impressive.
But so was I.
- Get him. Miss Armstrong.
- Come on!
- Come on. Uncle AJ.
- Let's go. Miss Armstrong.
- Come on. Uncle AJ!
- Come on!
- Come on. Miss Armstrong!
- Ah!
- Miss Armstrong!
- Be careful!
It's too bad. Agatha.
We could have been partners.
It's a shame. isn't it?
Don't hurt my mom!
Do what you want.
I might do something like this.
No!
What are you gonna
say now. punk? Huh?
- Mrs. Mac!
- Enough.
Don't! He's your son.
He's my what?
Morocco?
- Oh.
And then you left me abandoned
on the side of a cliff.
I never wanted
to speak to you again.
Aggy. why didn't you tell me?
- Freeze!
- Cuff him.
- This is my son?
Now I can see it.
You're almost
as good-looking as I am.
- You're under arrest.
Kidnapping. attempted murder.
assaulting a police officer.
theft. destruction
of public property.
And I think you have a case
with animal welfare.
- Let's go.
- Whatever. cop.
I'll be out by morning.
I love you. son!
Aggy! We'll always have Morocco!
Ant. are you okay?
I don't even know. man.
Goodbye. my old friend.
Excuse me.
who are you calling old?
Don't play like that.
- Mrs. Mac...
- You're alive.
Yes. well. I guess that's.
hmm. five down. four to go.
Well. you go rest.
We'll be right back.
Ah. time for a wee catnap.
So long.
I now know why you never
told me about him.
But what about this?
It's...
just a dime store novelty.
I'm sorry. I just--
I thought that
the mystery of who he was
being wrapped up in a trinket
felt fitting for us.
No. yeah. I-I get it.
Really.
I'm sorry.
So...
there's no gold?
Oh. no.
there's definitely gold.
I just had to wait
for the detective
to bring his backup.
Wait. so then where is it?
Somewhere out in that yard
are the final clues
that the three men
who inspired
this very book left.
Joe Harper. Ben Rogers.
and Tom Sawyer himself.
And if we find his three.
then we'll find what
"take from you five" means.
So. let's go.
- We're gonna find that gold.
- Yeah.
Hey. I found a "TS Loves MD".
Okay. that's one.
Where are you?
Oh. I found the second.
I found Ben Rogers.
"Take from you five
and give you my three."
Okay. Take five paces
towards the center.
So we're standing on it?
We're about to find out. Shovel.
- Lu. can you grab mine?
- Yeah.
Now. if that don't
prove the true meaning
of teamwork. huh?
Everyone giving their own
special little part
of themselves to help find it.
Then they surely went
and changed the meaning on me.
- Oh!
- You hear that?
- Hear that?
- Oh!
- We did it!
- All right!
- Wow!
So much of it.
This is so pretty.
It's real.
It's a shame we can't keep it.
Wait. what?
No. we found it. it's ours.
No. he's right.
It belongs to the Sawyers
and the Harpers and the Rogers.
I think there will be
a generous finder's fee though.
-  Seriously?
Wait. what are we talking.
like fifty-fifty?
- We'll work something out.
- Hm.
After the shares
were divvied out.
they did what anyone
with the right constitution
would have done.
Went right ahead
and put it back .
Most of it. anyway.
All so the next generation
of you thrill-seekers
could track down
the secret of that pirate gold
for yourselves.
I think great-great-grandpa
Sawyer would be very proud.
Yeah?
And. you know.
I think Mr. Twain
would have approved too.
Hm. At the end of the day.
that's all he ever wanted.
"A little more kindness.
a little less speed.
A little more giving.
a little less greed.
A little more smile.
a little less frown.
A little less kicking a man
while he's down.
A little more 'We'.
a little less 'I'.
A little more laugh.
a little less cry.
A little more flowers
on the pathway of life.
And fewer on graves
at the end of the strife."